Now as I mentioned cyder or classless into domain routing was introduced in 1993 and Sajda replaces
classful IP addresses.
This allows us to use a variable length subnet mosques or violists them and uses the notation 10.0 at
0.0 slash 8 rather than the notation of 10.00 dot 0 2 5 5.0 did 0 0.0.
So for a Class 8 network such as 10 this type of notation is used and not this notation insider.
So firstly I'm going to explain the notation of slash 8 and then I'll give you the reasons why the move
was made to cyder so inside a notation we use slash X mosques.
So if we had a subnet of 2.5 they're too far to 5.0.
That converts into 24 binary bits.
So to work it out convert the decimal octet to binary.
So in the first octet we have 2.5 which equals eight binary ones in the second octet we have 255 which
also equals eight binary ones in the third octet.
We have 2 5:5 which equals a another eight binary ones.
The last octet is decimal 0.
So they are no binary ones in the last octet.
So we've got eight Monnerie ones plus eight binary ones which equals 16 plus an additional eight binary
ones which equals 24 binary ones in the mosque.
So once again if you count the binary ones you end up with 24 binary ones and therefore to 5 5.1 5.2
for 5.0 can be written as a slash 24 because they are 24 binary ones in the subnet mask.
As another example 4 5 2 5.0 0 Sarah is equivalent to slash 16.
And why is that.
Because 2.5 is 8 binary ones and 2.5 is an additional eight binary ones so 8 plus 8 equals 16.
Hence slash 16 in the mosque.
So the slash mosque notation is essentially counting the number of binary ones in the mosque.
Mosques have to be contiguous ones.
As mentioned previously.
So this is simply another way of writing the subnet mask flesh 16 is equivalent to 2 5 5 2 4 5 to 0.0.
Now there are various advantages to using cider and there is a reason why the industry moved to the
side a notation.